DOC-3498: `tinymceai` on-prem documentation. (Closing) (#4137)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/tinymceai-on-premises-getting-started.adoc

= Getting started with TinyMCE AI On-Premise
:navtitle: Getting started
:description: Five-minute Docker Compose quick start for TinyMCE AI on-premises service
:keywords: AI, on-premises, getting started, docker, quick start

> This section produces a fully working setup (AI service, database, Redis, token server, and a browser editor) in roughly five minutes on any machine with Docker. This quick start validates the stack components before designing a production deployment. Production engineers should still review this section to understand the conceptual flow before continuing to xref:tinymceai-on-premises-production.adoc[the Production Deployment Guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section produces a fully working setup (AI service, database, Redis, token server, and a browser editor) in roughly five minutes on any machine with Docker. This quick start is designed to validate the stack components before moving onto a production deployment. Production engineers should still review this section to understand the conceptual flow before continuing to xref:tinymceai-on-premises-production.adoc[the Production Deployment Guide].
```
maybe?? the wording tripped my brain up. not sure this is quite right either though. feel free to ignore

== Five-minute demo with Docker Compose

=== Create the project folder

[source,bash]
----
mkdir tinymce-ai-onpremise && cd tinymce-ai-onpremise
----

=== Authenticate with the container registry

The service image lives at `registry.containers.tiny.cloud/ai-service`.

For Docker:

[source,bash]
----
docker login -u 'TINY_REGISTRY_USERNAME' https://registry.containers.tiny.cloud
# Docker prompts for the password; this avoids leaking it in shell history.
----

For Podman:

[source,bash]
----
podman login -u 'TINY_REGISTRY_USERNAME' registry.containers.tiny.cloud
----

Replace `TINY_REGISTRY_USERNAME` with the username supplied by the Tiny account representative. If credentials have not been received, contact `support@tiny.cloud`.

=== Pull the AI service image

[source,bash]
----
docker pull registry.containers.tiny.cloud/ai-service:latest
----

> For Podman, substitute `podman pull`. For production, pin a specific version tag (for example `:5.1.0`) rather than `:latest`.

Reviewer: why do we recommend pinning? feel like the why should be included.

=== Create `docker-compose.yml`

Create the file with exactly the contents below. Indentation is two spaces, never tabs.

[source,yaml]
----
services:
  mysql:
    image: mysql:8.0
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: ${DB_PASSWORD:-changeme}
      MYSQL_DATABASE: ai_service
    ports:
      - "3306:3306"
    volumes:
      - mysql_data:/var/lib/mysql
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "mysqladmin", "ping", "-h", "localhost"]
      interval: 10s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 5

  redis:
    image: redis:7
    ports:
      - "6379:6379"
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "redis-cli", "ping"]
      interval: 10s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 5

volumes:
  mysql_data:
----

> TIP: Pin `mysql:8.0`, not `mysql:8`. The `:8` tag points to MySQL 8.4, which is incompatible with the AI service. See xref:tinymceai-on-premises-database.adoc#mysql-version-pinning[MySQL version pinning] for details.

Reviewer 2: `MySQL 8.4` would be out of date very soon, best not name the version number

```suggestion
TIP: Pin `mysql:8.0`, not `mysql:8`. The `:8` tag points to latest MySQL, which is incompatible with the AI service. See xref:tinymceai-on-premises-database.adoc#mysql-version-pinning[MySQL version pinning] for details.
```

Author: Applied across all pages — replaced specific version references with "the latest MySQL". See 2e68692.

> PostgreSQL is equally supported. See xref:tinymceai-on-premises-database.adoc[Database, Redis, and storage] for an equivalent compose file. Review the xref:tinymceai-on-premises-database.adoc#postgresql-schema-prerequisite[PostgreSQL schema prerequisite] before switching.

Reviewer: was thinking, if I was doing this quickstart I'd rather know at the start what I'm setting up, not discover as I go. could we put a bit at the start, maybe under "five minute quick start..." saying something like "this step by step guide will set up AI On Prem with a MySQL database (and any other choices we're making here)"? this paragraph could then potentially go after that instead of here too
